# DatabaseCrowdFunding
## CS6083 Final Project

## Direction:
Your task in this semester’s project is to design a database-backed website for crowdfunding, similar to services such as Kickstarter or GoFundMe. Such services allow people to raise money for various activities, such as starting up a company, building a new product, creating a piece of art, or charitable causes. More precisely, users should be able to post new projects for which money is requested, and other users can then pledge money towards these projects, and can also discuss and like projects. Moreover, once the project is funded and completed, users who gave money (sponsors) should be able to rate projects to express their satisfaction. In this first part of the project, you have to design a relational database that can serve as a relational backend for the service. In the second part, you will then design the actual web site, which accesses this database.

In particular, the service you have to build should focus on funding creative projects, such as making music, creating paintings or statues, filming a movie, or writing books or poetry. As an example, imagine a band that needs to raise funds in order to record their next album, or to do their next concert tour. They post a request for funds, together with a description of the project, and maybe some samples of their music and some pictures. They also provide a minimum and maximum amount of funds needed, an end time for their fundraising campaign, and a planned completion time for the project (say, the targeted release date of the record or end of the tour). The fundraising campaign is over when either the maximum amount of funds is raised, or the end date of the campaign arrives, whichever comes first. At this point, the pledged funds will be released to the band, provided that the minimum amount has been reached; otherwise, the sponsors keep the pledged money and the fundraising campaign has failed.

After successfully funding their project, the band will then work (off-line) on the project, say, recording their next album. During this process, they may periodically post updates and new materials (e.g., mp3s of new songs) to the project page, and users can of course keep discussing the project. At some point, the band will declare the project to be completed. At this point, the sponsors will be asked to rate the project, based on the posted materials or other information. Note that we are assuming that sponsors do not get anything in return for their money, other than the satisfaction of having helped in the creation of new artistic works; this is in contrast to some services where sponsors get shares in created companies, or get a product that is being make with their money. It might of course make sense for the band to promise a CD of the new album to anyone pledging more than a certain amount, but you do not have to model this case.
Thus, in your relational design, you need to model users that should be identified by a unique user name or an email. On the site, users will need to be able to sign up, log in, post and modify some basic public and private profile information (say, hometown, interests, credit card, etc.), post comments on projects, and pledge funds for a project. Users may also post new projects and ask for funds for these projects. Projects should probably have a name and description, and maybe some tags or category labels, and owners of projects should be able to add new entries with updates about the project, containing text and multimedia data (mp3s, pictures, movies) about the project; the details of this are up to you and for now you may just use clob and blob types as placeholders. When a project is successfully funded, a charge to the credit cards of the sponsors should be created and recorded. Your design should also support basic social networking features. Users should be able to like a project, and should be able to follow other users. That way, users can easily see all the comments, pledges, and likes of the users that they follow.

Both parts of the project may be done individually or in teams of two students, and you should have already received email from the TAs about signing up as a group. The second part of the project will be due before the final exam. In this first part of the project, you have to design the database backend of the system, that is, an appropriate relational schema with keys, constraints, and maybe views, plus a set of useful queries. You should use your own database system on your laptop or on an internet-accessible server. Use a system that supports text operators such as “like” and “contains”, since you should allow users to search the content by keywords, and make sure that multimedia data can be stored as well.

Note that the second project builds on top of this one, so you cannot skip this project. The system described here has of course many similarities with existing crowdfunding sites, so you may want to look at some of them. Before starting your work, you should briefly think about how you envision the final system to look like at the end of the second part of the project, and what kind of operations and steps there are. For example, there should be a login page, a page where a user can sign up for the first time, and a page where users can create or update their profiles. There should be ways for users to post projects and updates about projects, to sponsor projects, to post comments, like, and follow, etc. Users should also be able to search for interesting projects by keywords, tags, or quality (e.g., how many likes a project has, or how good the ratings for past projects by this user were). Some of the details are only important in the second part, but start thinking about them now.
